>> Jen: The first thing I wanna point out
to you is that when I started talking
about grid,
I started talking about it as CSS 4.
CSS 4 grid totally awesome,
right, because we've had CSS 1,
that was the initial specification,
and then we had CSS 2,
2.1, we had CSS 3, so
now we must be on CSS 4, right?
Awesome.
Turns out though there actually is
no CSS4, and I didn't know that, so
now I'm telling everybody
that this is in fact true.
What the CSS people
have done at the W3C is
they've decided to version various
modules of CSS going forward.
So animation will have its own number,
grid will have its own number flex box,
will have its own number positioning,
will have its own number and so on and
so forth.
So each of these modules in CSS
will have their own number.
So there is no such thing as CSS for
a grid.
It's just CSS grid.
Please bear that in mind.
And if you wanna read up on that,
I've given a link here.
Okay.
So, why CSS grid?
You have heard so much about it,
it seems like it's really cool.
So here's some reasons.
First of all,
it is in fact a CSS specification.
So it's gone through the whole process.
It was released as a real,
life thing in March of 2017.
March this year.
And it's incorporated in
all of the latest browsers.
It's been incorporated through a lot
of browser updates at this point.
Edge is coming out with grid this month.
If it's not out already it
will be out in a few days.
So it's adoption rates have
taken off spectacularly.
Relative to the old days where we'd
have something new in CSS, and we'd go,
wow, that's awesome, I can't wait for
five years to go by before I can use that.
You can start to use it now.
So one of the most Interesting parts
of grid is that there is no row
markup we're now starting
to think in two dimensions.
So rather than putting in these
artificial rows on our page and
having cells inside of it, Grid is
a whole two dimensional thing, okay?
So we can specify where things are in
two dimensions any where on our page,
no row markup at all Makes
our HTML nice and clean.
And as I said grid is designed
to work in these two dimensions.
So the overall rule is
gonna be using Flexbox for
those UI elements like image galleries or
cards.
Or there's all kinds of different
UI elements that are like this,
little units of content.
Your Flexbox are great for those,
but you're gonna use grid for
your major layout of you webpage.
Okay?
You're gonna get lots of
examples of this today.